Okay, moving on to dispose.
So the dispose pattern is something that
you need to know as you're dealing with
resources that need to be cleaned up.
So as I mentioned earlier, when a value
type variable goes out of scope,
goes outside of its curly braces,
it's removed immediately.
The reference types that are declared
are eventually removed by the garbage
collector.
But there are some things that some
reference types that represent
other things where disposing of them and
destroying them have
to be done explicitly.
So think about a connection
to like a database.
A database connection
will be kept alive for
as long as the the construct itself
doesn't know when it's appropriate to
close that connection unless the developer
specifically instructs it to do so.
And if it doesn't instruct it to do so,
it will keep that connection open,
even if the even if
the variable the SQL connection
that exists is supposed to be
taken by the garbage collector.
It may be a while before the garbage
collector gets to it and
actually disposes of it.
So this is where the dispose
pattern comes in.
So this gives us more
control as developers,
over when we want to remove resources.
So this is important for
things like you know, you can only have so
many connections to a database
within an application.
Or you don't wanna have
a bunch of files open and
reading from them all at one time and
then just keep those files open so
that nobody else can access them,
no other programs can access them.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So this
kinda goes into this idea of unmanaged
resources, right?
The.NET Core library manages,
a lot of this stuff for you.
But there's certain things
that it simply does not.
So database connections are among
the most common of those.
So let's talk about this thing,
the IDisposable interface.
So IDisposable is designed for types
that need to release unmanaged resources
where the developer needs to be the one
to explicitly release those resources.
So let's take, for instance,
something that owns a SQL connection.
As I mentioned, if this thing isn't
properly disposed of by the developer,
it's just gonna hang out in memory and
keep that connection alive,
such that it might prevent somebody else.
If you get 100 connections,
the 101st connection may fail, right?
So what you wanna do is Is
implement this interface.
iDisposable is the interface that
kind of makes dispose work, okay?
And what that is, is it's simply
a method called public void dispose, and
what you do is simply go through and
if you have a, you might.
It's common to have kind of a marker to
say, has this object been disposed or not?
And if it has, then if it has,
then just exit this method.
We don't wanna do anything, but
if it hasn't go through, if it hasn't been
disposed yet, dispose of that connection,
free up that connection so that somebody
else can use it so that we're not keeping
an open connection that we're not using.
And then set the disposed variable
to true, so that way down the line,
if multiple calls to dispose happen, you
don't try to redispose something that's
already been disposed like connection.
Which would probably cause an exception.
So Idisposable is an interface
provided by the runtime,
it's provided by .net.
But it's so integrated into
the runtime there's a language
keyword that is used for
managing those resources,
disposed, even in the case
of an exception, and
it's called the using keyword.
So anything that implements IDisposable,
as long as it implements I disposable,
and technically speaking,
it really just needs to have
a public void Dispose method on it.
You can wrap it in a using statement,
and then you can use your resource.
And at the end of this code block,
at the end of this using block,
that resource will be released, okay?
Again, in the context
of a web application,
you only wanna keep a connection open for
as long as you need to connect to
that database, do the operation.
Cause the database can't accept infinite
number of connection, nothing can.
That's what the using keyword is for.
Recently, in the last few versions
of they've actually made it so
that you can put your using next
to your variable declaration and
skip using inside of
this block altogether.
I tend to think that I don't like this
because I really wanna dispose of my
resource as quickly as I possibly can
not necessarily when this variable drops
out of scope, cuz oftentimes I will want
to do something in that variable scope.
I wanna keep doing a few more things, but
I want this to be completed and
disposed of.
So I like to keep my usings inside of
this block, because it tells me exactly,
it's very explicit about when
this resource will go away.
It's really important to note, if an
exception happens inside of a using block,
the object will still be disposed.
It essentially is syntactic sugar, or
just a convenience way of doing
a giant try catch finally, and
inside that finally, it basically that's
what a using a statement converts to.
And inside that finally,
it will always call dispose to make
sure that that resource is freed up,
even if there's an error, so really
important part of of understanding that.
Cuz if you have an object and
you don't have a using statement,
you have three statements below that,
one of those throws an exception, and
your disposes at the bottom of the method
at Dispose isn't gonna get called because
an exception got thrown.
So it's a really important,
really critical part of the whole system.
Async dispose is a relatively
recent addition, essentially,
you don't have to you can.
There's a an interface called
IAsyncDisposable, which essentially is
a dispose suppose method that returns
a task so that you can await on it.
It's not super critically
important to necessarily use it.
If it's available, you should use it.
Because if you can be async all
the way down, then you should.
But as long as you're using
a using statement to wrap it,
I think that's tends to be more important,
but use a weight,
using as much as you can in
the places that you need to do.